README.md, before:

Capistrano::Rsync for Capistrano v3
===================================
[![Gem version][gem-badge]](http://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano-rsync)
[gem-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano-rsync.png

**Deploy with Rsync** to your server from any local (or remote) repository when
using [**Capistrano**](http://www.capistranorb.com/).  Saves you from having to
install Git on your production machine and allows you to customize which files
you want to deploy. Also allows you to easily precompile things on your local
machine before deploying.

### Tour
- Works with the new [**Capistrano v3**](http://www.capistranorb.com/) ([source
  code](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano)) versions `>= 3.0.0pre14` and
  `< 4`.
- Suitable for deploying any apps, be it Ruby, Rails, Node.js or others.  
- Exclude files from being deployed with Rsync's `--exclude` options.
- Precompile files or assets easily before deploying, like JavaScript or CSS.
- Caches your previously deployed code to speed up deployments ~1337%.
- Currently works only with Git (as does Capistrano v3), so please shout out
  your interest in other SCMs.

Using [Mina](http://nadarei.co/mina/) instead of Capistrano? I've built
[Mina::Rsync](https://github.com/moll/mina-rsync) as well.


Using
-----
Install with:
```
gem install capistrano-rsync
```

Require it at the top of your `Capfile` (or `config/deploy.rb`):
```ruby
require "capistrano/rsync"
```

Set some `rsync_options` to your liking:
```ruby
set :rsync_options, %w[--recursive --delete --delete-excluded --exclude .git*]
```

And after setting regular Capistrano options, deploy as usual!
```
cap deploy
```

### Implementation
1. Clones and updates your repository to `rsync_stage` (defaults to
   `tmp/deploy`) on your local machine.
2. Checks out the branch set in the `branch` variable (defaults to `master`).
3. If `rsync_cache` set (defaults to `shared/deploy`), rsyncs to that directory
   on the server.
4. If `rsync_cache` set, copies the content of that directory to a new release
   directory.
5. If `rsync_cache` is `nil`, rsyncs straight to a new release directory.

After that, Capistrano takes over and runs its usual tasks and symlinking.

### Exclude files from being deployed
If you don't want to deploy everything you've committed to your repository, pass
some `--exclude` options to Rsync:
```ruby
set :rsync_options, %w[
  --recursive --delete --delete-excluded
  --exclude .git*
  --exclude /config/database.yml
  --exclude /test/***
]
```

### Precompile assets before deploy
Capistrano::Rsync runs `rsync:stage` before rsyncing. Hook to that like this:
```ruby
task :precompile do
  Dir.chdir fetch(:rsync_stage) do
    system "rake", "assets:precompile"
  end
end

after "rsync:stage", "precompile"
```

### Deploy release without symlinking the current directory
```
cap rsync:release
```


Configuration
-------------
Set Capistrano variables with `set name, value`.

Name          | Default | Description
--------------|---------|------------
repo_url      | `.` | The path or URL to a Git repository to clone from.  
branch        | `master` | The Git branch to checkout.  
rsync_stage   | `tmp/deploy` | Path where to clone your repository for staging, checkouting and rsyncing. Can be both relative or absolute.
rsync_cache   | `shared/deploy` | Path where to cache your repository on the server to avoid rsyncing from scratch each time. Can be both relative or absolute.<br> Set to `nil` if you want to disable the cache.
rsync_options | `[]` | Array of options to pass to `rsync`.  


License
-------
Capistrano::Rsync is released under a *Lesser GNU Affero General Public
License*, which in summary means:

- You **can** use this program for **no cost**.
- You **can** use this program for **both personal and commercial reasons**.
- You **do not have to share your own program's code** which uses this program.
- You **have to share modifications** (e.g bug-fixes) you've made to this
  program.

For more convoluted language, see the `LICENSE` file.


About
-----
**[Andri Möll](http://themoll.com)** made this happen.  
[Monday Calendar](https://mondayapp.com) was the reason I needed this.

If you find Capistrano::Rsync needs improving, please don't hesitate to type to
me now at [andri@dot.ee](mailto:andri@dot.ee) or [create an issue
online](https://github.com/moll/capistrano-rsync/issues).

Commit message:

Prevent tasks from being loaded twice
We want to set the `:scm` to `:rsync` to prevent loading the default SCM deploy
tasks.

Capistrano will auto-load the SCM in 'capistrano/setup'. By setting the `:scm`
to `:rsync` and loading 'capistrano/rsync' in the Capfile, the tasks would be
loaded twice.

By moving the tasks out into its separate file (strategy/rsync.rb) and using
`require` to load it in 'capistrano/rsync' we avoid having the tasks being
loaded twice.

Setting the `:scm` to `:rsync` is obviously a ugly hack, since Rsync is not a
SCM, but it is the only work around I can see for now, until
capistrano/capistrano#929 is resolved. It essentially works by setting the SCM
to be a no-op.

README.md, after:

Capistrano::Rsync for Capistrano v3
===================================
[![Gem version][gem-badge]](http://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano-rsync)
[gem-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano-rsync.png

**Deploy with Rsync** to your server from any local (or remote) repository when
using [**Capistrano**](http://www.capistranorb.com/).  Saves you from having to
install Git on your production machine and allows you to customize which files
you want to deploy. Also allows you to easily precompile things on your local
machine before deploying.

### Tour
- Works with the new [**Capistrano v3**](http://www.capistranorb.com/) ([source
  code](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano)) versions `>= 3.0.0pre14` and
  `< 4`.
- Suitable for deploying any apps, be it Ruby, Rails, Node.js or others.  
- Exclude files from being deployed with Rsync's `--exclude` options.
- Precompile files or assets easily before deploying, like JavaScript or CSS.
- Caches your previously deployed code to speed up deployments ~1337%.
- Currently works only with Git (as does Capistrano v3), so please shout out
  your interest in other SCMs.

Using [Mina](http://nadarei.co/mina/) instead of Capistrano? I've built
[Mina::Rsync](https://github.com/moll/mina-rsync) as well.


Using
-----
Install with:
```
gem install capistrano-rsync
```

Require it at the top of your `Capfile` (or `config/deploy.rb`):
```ruby
require "capistrano/rsync"
```

Set the `scm` to use `rsync`. This is to prevent the default deploy tasks from
being run. This will basically set the SCM as a no-op. This is a workaround
until capistrano/capistrano#929 is resolved.
```ruby
set :scm, :rsync
```

Set some `rsync_options` to your liking:
```ruby
set :rsync_options, %w[--recursive --delete --delete-excluded --exclude .git*]
```

And after setting regular Capistrano options, deploy as usual!
```
cap deploy
```

### Implementation
1. Clones and updates your repository to `rsync_stage` (defaults to
   `tmp/deploy`) on your local machine.
2. Checks out the branch set in the `branch` variable (defaults to `master`).
3. If `rsync_cache` set (defaults to `shared/deploy`), rsyncs to that directory
   on the server.
4. If `rsync_cache` set, copies the content of that directory to a new release
   directory.
5. If `rsync_cache` is `nil`, rsyncs straight to a new release directory.

After that, Capistrano takes over and runs its usual tasks and symlinking.

### Exclude files from being deployed
If you don't want to deploy everything you've committed to your repository, pass
some `--exclude` options to Rsync:
```ruby
set :rsync_options, %w[
  --recursive --delete --delete-excluded
  --exclude .git*
  --exclude /config/database.yml
  --exclude /test/***
]
```

### Precompile assets before deploy
Capistrano::Rsync runs `rsync:stage` before rsyncing. Hook to that like this:
```ruby
task :precompile do
  Dir.chdir fetch(:rsync_stage) do
    system "rake", "assets:precompile"
  end
end

after "rsync:stage", "precompile"
```

### Deploy release without symlinking the current directory
```
cap rsync:release
```


Configuration
-------------
Set Capistrano variables with `set name, value`.

Name          | Default | Description
--------------|---------|------------
repo_url      | `.` | The path or URL to a Git repository to clone from.  
branch        | `master` | The Git branch to checkout.  
rsync_stage   | `tmp/deploy` | Path where to clone your repository for staging, checkouting and rsyncing. Can be both relative or absolute.
rsync_cache   | `shared/deploy` | Path where to cache your repository on the server to avoid rsyncing from scratch each time. Can be both relative or absolute.<br> Set to `nil` if you want to disable the cache.
rsync_options | `[]` | Array of options to pass to `rsync`.  


License
-------
Capistrano::Rsync is released under a *Lesser GNU Affero General Public
License*, which in summary means:

- You **can** use this program for **no cost**.
- You **can** use this program for **both personal and commercial reasons**.
- You **do not have to share your own program's code** which uses this program.
- You **have to share modifications** (e.g bug-fixes) you've made to this
  program.

For more convoluted language, see the `LICENSE` file.


About
-----
**[Andri Möll](http://themoll.com)** made this happen.  
[Monday Calendar](https://mondayapp.com) was the reason I needed this.

If you find Capistrano::Rsync needs improving, please don't hesitate to type to
me now at [andri@dot.ee](mailto:andri@dot.ee) or [create an issue
online](https://github.com/moll/capistrano-rsync/issues).
